So thank you.
Alright, now just to invite the, uh,
midwifery council to the table please.
Alright.
Hello. Thank you.
And look, I, I appreciate it's always difficult in
these, uh, circumstances.
Um, but, uh, thank you
and we are looking forward to hearing from you now.
Um, Leslie Clark, thank you
and, uh, got you for 10 minutes. So,
Oh, um, call Leslie Clark Toko ua.
I am the Chief Executive of the Midwifery Council.
And with me today we've got Kylie Clark, who no relation.
Kylie, who is the chair of the midwifery council
and is the lead maternity carer in the Hawkes Bay.
And Jessica Schreiber, who is the Registrar
of Midwifery Council.
Welcome. Um, just want to thank you for the opportunity
to speak to this, um, very aware of course
that you have our written submission,
so we won't take the time to work through that in detail,
but rather just highlight a few particular areas.
Um, and, um, our main, um, desire today is
to actually answer your questions listening to the, um,
petitioners and yes, I would like to acknowledge them and,
and their passion.
Um, there was much of what they said
that was actually not accurate, much of what they said
that we could actually talk about and rebut here and now.
But I'd rather focus on what the committee, um, wants
to know about the matters
that have been raised by the petitioners.
Um, before I hand over, well just,
Just I might help with that.
What, what, of course we'll report back Yes.
On what we hear. We'll do a report.
So of course, you know, we are interested in hearing, um,
as much information as we can.
Um,
I hopeful And privately within discussing balance the
information we hear, so, so feel free to
Sure. Um,
I mean, I think much
of it is in the written submissions anyway.
Um, there was, I, I think a, a key point is
that the, um, version of the scope that, uh, gave rise
to the petitioners not what has been GED
and is not what will be coming into effect
on the 1st of October.
Um, we can talk, um, later, if you like,
about the process that we went through.
Um, but I think, you know, for the purpose of
what is happening now, it is the current version
of the scope that is g that is matter in question.
Uh, before I hand over to Kylie, just also want to recognize
that our scope of practice, um, like many scopes, um,
under the HBCA have been in place for quite some time.
Um, midwifery care has evolved over the years,
and so there was a need to review the scope, um,
and bring it up into, up to speed
with contemporary midwifery practice.
So that was a starting point.
Um, and I'll look, I'll just hand over to Kylie
because she will talk, well,
very much more ELO eloquently than me, um, about the, uh,
council's intent
and aspirations with the work that we undertook.
I, no Koto, um, Kylie Clark, I am an LMC midwife, uh,
have been for 14 years now.
Um, and I'm also the chair at the,
um, midwifery council.
Um, so I'd just like to add in, uh, alongside
with our submission that the intent
of the council has always been
to improve equitable health outcomes
and maternity for whanau, um, Maori and Pacifica.
Um, it has been a transformational process
to ensure a culturally
and clinically safe scope of practice reflects improvements
to maternity care in communities in, um,
and I can actually attest to it
as a working LMC in the community, um,
on ground level working with whanau.
Um, what that actually translate into, um,
out there doing the vein, uh,
the perinatal mortality morbidity report 16th report release
this year, again, continues
to challenge the maternity sector to acknowledge persistent
and systemic health inequities.
Um, therefore it has mandated, um,
high order Act 2022
and Tata Health Strategy have mandated the health sector's
responsibility to ensure that we strive for a strong focus
on health equity in the midwifery sector
and midwives responsibility to embed into practice.
Tata has tasked the health sector to be collaborative,
innovative, flexible,
and create diverse solutions within practice.
The process that we undertook to review the scope
of practice was in keeping with this a collaborative
reference group inclusive of UA t
incorporating framework.
So we know that one of the key matters that has been raised
through this process is the use of the word whanau.
We would like to express
that whanau was adopted into the scope
of middle midwifery practice
and was accepted by the council with the intent
of being inclusive and all encompassing.
It is a kapu that could meet the needs
of wau supporting the profession to embed into practice
with the te Maori worldview
and reduce health inequities
and improve maternity outcomes for whanau.
While the contemporary use of whanau reflects,
reflects family, the presence
of whanau in the revised scope provides a contextual
and layered meaning, which adds depth
and representation of more than family
from an English definition.
And I would also just like to clarify
that we did not redefine the word whanau.
Um, we refer to it, um, as a mechanism being reflective of
what whanau looks like out there in the community, um,
for women wpu pregnant person and baby.
So despite misinterpretation of the revised scope,
the council's intention remains that the primary obligation
of a midwife is to wpu woman,
pregnant person and newborn baby.
The inclusion of whanau is to recognize the importance
of whanau in creating a safe, nurturing environment.
Likewise, the scope recognizes that midwives need
to understand the needs of all people, of how they identify
and be able to work within their context.
Mm-Hmm. Thanks Kylie.
Um, just, just a final couple of comments.
Um, if I may just reiterating again that the final version
of the scope and one that's GED
and coming into effect does include women and baby.
So yes, there was some, uh, history around the development
of that scope, um,
but what matters is actually
what is going to be implemented.
Um, the other thing to note is that scopes of practice are,
um, secondary legislation and
therefore within the remit
of the Regulations Review Committee.
Um, and we are currently in dialogue
with regulations Review committee, um,
and considering some recommendations that they have made,
uh, I can't speak in more detail to that
because, um, those deliberations are yet to be had,
um, with council.
So, um, but that is a parallel process here.
Uh, and in terms of, um, what
may happen with the scope going forward,
the regulations review committee will have some influence
over that, um, necessarily.
So yes, we're happy to answer any questions.
Alright, thank you members. Questions,
Uh, I guess, um, what's the council gonna take, um, out
of this process as a, um, a, a lesson
for future processes?
Yeah, good question, Vanessa.
Um, I mean, look, this, this project started in 2020, um,
well before my time, as you know, Vanessa, we,
we had a previous work working relationship
and in fact, um, everyone that's here today, um,
so it's difficult to, I mean, hindsight's 2020.
Um, I think personally
that if we had developed the standards of competence
because you have a scope of practice
and then you have the standards of competence that relate to
that scope, there would've been better clarity about
what this means for midwifery practice.
And if we worked on those two things together,
one rather than sequentially, um, that perhaps may have, uh,
created better clarity around intent
and practical effect of what the, what the scope
of practice, um, was all about.
So, but there's probably a lot of learnings, um, which is
as it should be with these kind of processes.
Mm-Hmm. Um, yeah, I'm still really struggling to see
how hanau is a better, like, in terms of if, if, if,
if the re if the reason for these changes are
because you want to see, uh, I, I'm,
I'm presuming it's a very broad understanding of,
or ang, um, on midwifery practice.
How, how does AU serve that better then? Wahine Hapu?
Um, I think the
revised scope was definitely aspirational from its
conception to how it was developed.
And I I,
but the most basic way I can explain it is that whanau is,
as a practicing midwife, you were considering the,
the existing context of where this wah pu is.
Um, I think midwifery has been woman centric
and we, I think the introduction of
adopting whanau into the scope was about making it whanau
centric and all inclusive for whatever that context exists
for a woman ha
or person, um, as opposed to just a pregnant person. Mm.
Okay. Thank you. It's just building on that, if that, if
that's the motivation, then why,
why then use the term pregnant person,
which is leading into, into quite a,
a different con cultural conversation. Mm-Hmm.
I mean, that, that is from a desire to be inclusive
of all people who may be going
through the journey of conception.
That's really helpful. So they're two quite different,
They are two different things. So
Whanau is about you wanting
to be inclusive from a family point of view.
Yep. Whereas the latter is about you wanting to Okay.
The wider heart conversation.
Yeah. Yeah. I, if, if I can just add regarding, um,
whanau, um, and from a lay person's point of view,
I'm not a midwife, is that I think there's, there's a lot
of evidence that to show that the wellbeing of a, of,
of a child, of a baby
and mum, um,
is very much influenced on the environ
environment in which they are.
Um, and so the midwife, if,
if you're wanting the best outcomes for mum
and baby actually being cognizant of the environment Sure.
The rest of the family and whanau is going to help with
that, with that outcome. Thank you. Yeah.
Can, can you appreciate why, um, Diane
and the others have conflated those.
So I, I'll take it on, you know, on on on your, on your,
on your saying that those two things are,
are separate for you Mm-Hmm.
Yes. They both come into recipe. Can you see
how they've conflated those two
and that they're, that they're now reading,
or you would say misreading your, uh, you are moving on
with this term whanau Mm-Hmm.
As, as, as being tied up with, with, uh,
with the other part?
Yeah. I mean, I, I guess we,
we do have some understanding of that.
Absolutely. And, um, I think referring back to
what I was saying before about the detail
of midwifery practice will be in the standards
of competence, and that's
where the potentially the light bulb moment might be, ah,
okay, this is what it means in practice.
So, um, you know, we,
we are currently consulting on the standards
of competence at the moment.
So, uh, we should, I think end up with a,
you know, a range of documents, the scoping, the founding,
um, secondary legislation,
but then the standard of competence that will provide that,
um, elucidation.
Okay. And, and also the work that we are doing
with the regulations review committee,
and big part of what they're looking at is clarity
and elucidation as well.
So, right. Yeah. Okay.
Can I have one more question? Yes, yes.
Um, so when I read your submission, I, um, so,
um, be,
because I am so passionate about the Maori language
and Maori culture, and one of the main reasons
that I've come to this house
and the first MP is to see that, um,
flourish and spread everywhere.
I I, I, I didn't read, and please take this respectfully.
I didn't, I didn't read in your report a, um, um,
the same kind of understanding of,
of the Maori language in the Maori world as
what I have encountered in most, uh, in most contexts,
which, who are that, that are, that are all about, um,
advancing, um, the full world of, of, of, yeah.
Or of al Maori.
So what, who can I, can I ask where and who
and from what you are drawing from in terms of
The, I mean the, uh,
the Project Invo involved the independent expertise,
a collaborative working group that was very broad
and very representative of Rii and,
and others Pacifica consumers
and, um, professional bodies and things like that.
So very much, um, the work that they,
or the decision making that council did drew on on
that expertise.
I guess the other point to make is that, you know,
we do operate under a statute, so everything we do has
to kind of fit within the legislation.
So, um, that's why perhaps what you're saying, if I'm,
if I'm listening to you correctly, that that kind
of broadness, we have to narrow that down for the purpose
of regulation, right?
'cause midwives need to know what they're accountable to
and what their responsibilities are.
So that tape potentially takes away some of the broadness
that you might be thinking of.
I don't have I got the right end of the stick, Kylie?
Yeah, sounds fine. Jessica,
I didn't quite understand what you were asking.
Mm-Hmm.
I just, I I struggle
With the Yeah, no, no, I could, I, I've spoken enough
Now. Now I have a question.
St.
I, I noticed in, in the submission, the group submission,
they talked about, um, trans men who had birthed the baby
and, uh, six pregnant trans men.
Is that a real, is that a thing?
I I don't have any knowledge of that. No, no, no.
That's fine. There was, there was, there was, um,
many things said during the petitioner's oral submissions
that we supposedly were responsible
for that we'd never heard about.
So, um, and that's why I said, you know,
it would take us half an hour to reverse. You've
Seen, you've read their written,
full written submission. Yes.
Presumably. Yeah. No,
it's just in their written submission that was something
that is, uh, they, they sort
of quoted the six pregnant trans men birth the baby
based on Australian statistics. That's not a thing.
I dunno. Well, yeah, it could be. Yeah.
Well, trans Man is a, a, um, a man who was um, oh,
who was assigned as a female.
Yeah. Sorry, I understand the question. Sorry.
Sorry, my, There you go.
Showing my age.
Alright. No, thank you. Well, if there's no other
Questions, sorry, can I just add, um,
just a couple last things.
I'd just like to clarify that the Midwifery Council is not
paid by the public, um, in terms of, um, public funded,
I suppose we, we use the pay, so midwives pay for us
to be able to do regulate the profession.
Um, I just noted that it was brought up previously. Yeah.
And Coverage of the, all
The midwives have to be registered to
a hundred percent. So, and
Being registered does not register,
but you also have to join the council as they opt
In. No, no, no, no.
It's like the medical council, right?
It's like you apply for annual practicing certificate
and you pay the regulator.
Right. And just just to that question
that was asked earlier about who appoints the, uh,
council members, they are all appointed by the minister.
Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. I,
a quick Google have to ask my question.
I know how I can ask.
Alright. Hello. Well, thank you very much anyway,
and look and thank you.
I know that, um, we're in a welcome to Parliament.
Have
Women useful side.
Don't wanna, you won't be part of the deliberation up in
where you uh, no, I don't think that I add anything.
Channel her. Oh, just my, my little um,
Alright, look Little.
Okay. Sorry. Thank you. Excuse me.
Just start, we're moving on. We compartmentalize.
So we'll get ready for a little
Leaf. We've done something. It's
a weird,
Right. Um,
so all mo do I got
that right Mo?
Um, now, so the, um, who are we,
who's leading us off here?
So, Kathy Wilson, um,
I'm a board member at Otto Meha, um, representing Tour Meha.
And with me is,
My name is Toi, I'm from Child Space
Chi Rob McCann from Riha Chi Laura.
Uh, I'm from Child Spaces. Alright, I know, I know.
We introduced ourselves before you came in.
So I'm Greg O'Connor, the chair. Greg Fleming from Malki.
Here. James, me, uh, Francisco Hernandez list
of Alright, so thank you.
10 minutes and uh, hopefully we can time questions.
Excellent. So, on behalf of Meha
and Child Space, we are here to speak to the petition
to implement a one to four ratio for under threes.
We are here today because children
can't advocate for themselves.
Children do not get a say but deserve more than the care
and attention being afforded
by the current legislation standards.
That current standard is the ratio of teachers to children
that was arbitrarily set in the 1960s
and then again in the 1990s without
any evidence or research.
The current ratio of teachers
to children in ECE are one teacher
to five children under two years,
and two teachers for 20 children over the age of two.
What that means is that as soon as a child turns two,
there can be 22 year olds super being supervised, supported
and cared for with only two teachers.
My colleague too will talk, were more about what
that looks like in practice and how unworkable that is.
The ratios are also incompatible with science,
which acknowledges that a human being is an infant
until they reach the age of three years.
Yet our current model creates an arbitrary cutoff at two
years that leaves two
to 3-year-old children is the lowest funded group.
Yet these children have all the needs of under twos
children, for example, nappy changing,
developing social skills and developing language.
So what we have is an outdated minimum ratio that is unsafe
and that is the government that continues
to use when setting budgets
and is the basis of the minimum standard in ECE.
Now, we should note that despite the additional cost
to ECE services,
many high quality providers have already put in place lower
children to teacher ratios
and they fund this through parental fees or reduced margins.
Not all providers can afford to do this.
And that brings us back to what we're asking parliament
to do, which is to draw a line in the sand
and commit to a lower ratio
and ensure that all children in ECE have a better
and safer baseline of service.
In fact, that commitment was in the National Party education
policy, and I quote,
national will progressively improve the adult to child ratio
for under two year olds in early childhood education
ratios are not just about safety
and quality issue for our tamari, they are one
of the building blocks of ECE.
So when we get it wrong, any changes
to ECE policy in funding can cause a range
of unintended consequences.
Budget 2023 was an example of that.
Let's look at the rationale for lower ratios.
Lower ratios are beneficial for children, not just
because they're safer, but they enable teachers
to focus on children.
They better support child staff relationships.
They increase the quality of interactions between adults
and children and they reduce the stress on tamaki.
If we are not enabling that kind of interaction,
I've just listed, we are not providing quality ECE, which is
what is required for children to develop
to their full potential.
Before I hand you over to my colleague Tui,
I'd like to conclude with this.
When tamari are young, they need dedicated attention
to stay safe and have their needs tended to.
But it's much more than that quality.
ECE requires qualified teachers
to develop child staff relationships
because the research is clear.
The quality of interactions between adults
and children play a hugely important role in
stimulating early learning.
And as parents, if you are putting your children into ECE,
you want them to be cared for and educated
because they are our most precious and treasured gifts. Ki
Thank you Kelly.
My name's til again, nice to see you guys.
And just in case I know this is quite academic so far,
just on paper because you're still not seeing an issue
with this two to 20 ratio, which is in a, an effective ratio
of one teacher to every ten two year olds.
I would like try and paint a practical picture.
So right now, between your council here on the board on the
side, we've got nine people in this room.
So let's say we're a 20 place ECE service.
My colleague could be next door with all the four
and five year olds, and I could be here
with nine two year olds.
Let's say you're all two, right?
Because you're all two, you are still in nappies,
your language is still developing.
So I have to pay very close attention
to your individual cues and gestures to try
and understand what you might need moment to moment.
Um, your brains are all still developing,
so you often find it quite hard
to regulate your own emotions.
You need me to help you with that.
Um, and that affects your behavior
and affects your behavior
towards other children in the class.
Um, you're experimenting with, with power and autonomy
and that kind of thing when you're two years old.
And that can make things a bit noisy
or dangerous for other people.
And you will require assistance
with the most basic self-care like changing, uh,
getting dressed, changing your nappy, eating, sleeping, um,
even blowing your nose, things like that.
You'll need my help. And almost half of you,
based on the stats, will have some kind of additional
physical, emotional or cognitive need.
So I'm sure you can appreciate already
what an impossible situation
to operating at these minimum standards is.
But I'm just gonna just try
and paint the picture a little bit further just in case
you're still not quite convinced.
So let's say here we are in our, in our toddler room here
with you, nine two year olds and you're all very lovely
and we've had a a bit of a rough morning
'cause you, you guys all get
dropped off at about the same time.
And I'm the only teacher to greet you and your fa family
and check in on how you've slept
and any medication you might need to take
and what our plans are for the day
and to give you each the individual attention
that you actually need to feel safe to be able
to say goodbye to your parent
and to settle in with us for the day.
So stretched a bit thin, but we've made it had morning tea
and it's just after morning tea
and I'm trying to clear the dishes away when suddenly I
notice that James needs an average change.
Um, so instead of what I would like to do, which is
to go have a nice unhurried one-on-one care moment
with James, I instead have to go get you changed as quickly
as possible while try to supervise the rest of the room,
which as you can imagine is quite
hard to do from the bathroom.
So while I'm in there, I don't notice that Greg has, uh,
also needed a nappy change
and is instead taken it upon himself, removed his own nappy
and is now smearing the walls with um,
eventually when I do make it back into the room
and I notice this and I'm busy trying to scrub
who off Greek and off the walls.
Um, other Greek metaphor
Parliament.
Uh, yes, the other Greek has bitten Francisco
and you're both howling
'cause there's only one red truck and you both want it.
And no two, two of your core people have, uh,
slid the door open and are running towards the gate
that appearance and eventually left open on the way out.
And Lauren's in the corner having a breakdown
for she has additional needs and it's all too noisy in here.
The dishes still aren't done.
My hands are still covered in poo.
You can see how this is not gonna work, right?
These are real examples of things that have happened
and continue to happen in toddler rooms across the country.
Luckily, as Kathy mentioned, we most
of us staff do a higher ratio than that.
So we can mitigate some of the negative
consequences of these kinds of things.
But again, not everyone can afford to do this.
We don't have time to go through all the examples of
how having this higher teacher
to child ratio would be better for teachers and for Tamari.
You've got some further
examples if you'd like to read them later.
Um, but yes, early childhood teachers are amazing,
but no one is super human.
And yeah, I think most parents, if they could choose
to have, uh, just one, 2-year-old
or more than that, well, you know,
you can imagine what they're picking.
So you've heard from my colleague too,
the minimum standards are not enabling the basic care,
let alone any form of education for our youngest
and most vulnerable children in, in the al own New Zealand
with regulation and funding reviews currently underway,
we in the thousands of teachers, actually 6,253
that have signed this petition, are asking this committee
to recognize the importance of ECE ratios.
Ratios are the foundation upon which ECE
regulation and funding are built.
They set how much time
and the quality of relationships
between a teacher and children.
We cannot effectively regulate
or fund based on these outdated, unsafe
and impossible ratios.
This is a place from which to start any reform
and the time for that reform is now.
Thank you for your time and we look
forward to taking questions.
Alright, thank
You. It's one of
the best, um, presentations I've had.
I've not my first year in parliament
that outstanding. It's lucky you've
Had your five kids already, isn't it? Yeah, exactly.
Brutally accurate. Yeah.
Yeah, that's right. What can you say?
We have a, we have a, we're an open planner.
We've got 10 mps with no supervision.
Horrifying. Yeah. That's scary. Um,
Quick question. So,
uh, and I know, um, with you coming afterwards, they'll,
they'll probably have the, this detail as well,
but, um, what, what is the, uh,
what's the average across the sector at the moment,
obviously are there?
Yeah. And, and well probably two ways of answering that.
What, how, how many groups, uh,
how many centers do you know are actually, are at that nine
to 10 mm.
Um, uh, versus how many are, um, are, uh, a
Volunteer? We can't
answer that. And I would doubt even the
ministry would've that information. Okay.
So you don't know what the ratios are? No,
No. All all i, all
we can speak for is the, the centers
that we are directly involved with. Yeah.
Okay. And those, and, and how do, and then,
and then related to that is the questions.
Obviously the big thing here if we
to implement this is the funding cost, right?
Mm-Hmm. So what the, the current funding arrangement allows,
allows for one to 10.
Well, what is presumed on one to 10 mm-Hmm.
You operate centers. What, what are you able to get
that down to on the current funding?
Uh, you are taking off, money's coming from somewhere.
Yeah. We've lost 77 early childhood centers have closed this
year alone because they haven't been able to afford it.
But the, um, economy of scale for the larger providers,
they're more likely to be able to, um, maintain
and run with better ratios if they choose to.
But when you've got, the only way we can get extra money is
through parental fees.
There's no more money. You know, we know
that there is a set afin amount
of money coming from the government.
Um, and so we all just do the best we can.
But the consequence is you've got your, um, your,
your someone who owns one center or two centers
or three centers or a, a community based center.
Uh, I'm really, really struggling to do the very best
and try and provide quality for children.
Okay. So government funding allows you to do one
to 10 based on one center,
and then if you are able to, with a combination of fees
and then, uh, sharing operating fixed costs across a number
of centers, then you're able to bring that ratio down if
You so choose to. Uh,
yeah, but that would be
the only way that you could do it.
You're saying if you, if it was just purely one center based
on current funding, you could,
you could actually really only achieve 10 point
Many people who have only got one center are
funding themselves.
Yeah. Okay. But they're not
doing that outta government funding. No.
Oh, no. Okay. No, thank you. Absolutely not.
So, so this change in ratio would
need to be accompanied by
A corresponding Funding increase?
Well, we've got a, a funding model review that's, um,
we're just working on the
terms of reference for at the moment.
And that's meant to start near the end of this year.
But ratios need to be part of it.
The ratios need to be changed so that they are included in
the funding model review, which is very overdue.
And of course we've also got,
the consultation has just finished
and we've got the work happening
around the regulatory review.
Um, and once again,
ratio should actually be coming into part of that as well.
And I think, as Kathy said,
we can't make any improvements in ECE to improve
anything without a ratio change.
So we really do want this parliament to make
that line in the sand, that bottom line so
that we can make improvements in
all areas in early childhood.
Francisco, you want question? Yeah, yeah. Um, yeah.
Thank you so much for your presentation.
I echo the, um, you know, my fellow committee members, um,
thoughts that this is probably one of the best, um,
presentations we've seen so far.
Um, have you worked out, um, what quantum
of additional funding might be needed to kind
of implement the one to four ratio you guys for
We, we don't get involved in that side of things.
We, we wouldn't have any idea on.
I I I would say you'd be looking at,
um, I might throw that one to Rob.
I suspect there'd be a few dollars needing
to be attached. I'm sure
There'll be a technical committee to
It. I, I think one of the things
that we are asking for is
to ensure that we can get that line drawn in the sand
because there are multiple ways of changing how revenue,
uh, is, is spread out.
But at the moment when everything,
all our foundation blocks are built on this premise
that you've heard is really impossible Mm-Hmm.
Then it means that everything fails.
And we saw a budget last year where changes had to be made
because this premise hadn't been followed.
So it's not a matter of the money at this stage.
The first thing is we've got to get parliament
to say we need to change the ratio
and then leave it up to, uh, the, that review to,
to work out how to afford it or move the money around.
Yeah. Alright.
Very quickly running outta time.
But I, um, sat on South Canterbury Kindergarten Association
board for a couple years
and, um, one of the challenges around ratios is access
to staffing and resources
and some of the pressures it puts on when you,
if you're in a position where you've got an illness
and you can't make the ratio, then the center clauses
for the day and the impact that has on families.
So, um, obviously you'll, you'll be well aware of that
as well as operators yourselves.
So that's the fact that goes into it.
In terms of the, the cost,
I've done some work on this in the past, it would be,
I would say at least in the hundreds of millions,
every time you adjust a ratio, it's,
it's a very, very big project.
But what I would say is that's, it's a factor.
It's not the factor and it would have
to go into the balance of all of this.
So, um, do you have any views on, I guess
I'm not speaking on behalf of kindergartens,
but some of the things that kindergartens offer is they,
they, they offer free, um, uh, essentially fees free.
They offer smaller ratios,
they offer more community based learning, um, as, as a,
a way to incentivize families
to send their children to kindergartens.
Is there any risk that, um, significant changes would,
would lessen that incentive
and eventually, if,
if everyone was totally even across the board,
the difference between sending your child to a kindergarten
to a big box, um, uh, provider might not be there
and it much easier just to send your kid to the,
the larger court providers. Do you have any views on that?
Parents are already making choices. Yeah.
Um, with regards to, uh,
kindergartens work under exactly the same ratios
that education and care does.
So there is no difference there whatsoever.
Uh, the funding to kindergartens is higher than it is
to education and care providers.
Um, another thing is that the wages get paid
by the government for kindergartens, they don't
for education and care providers.
So there is a huge difference about the costs that actually
the education and care providers need to fund compared to
what kindergartens do.
So, you know, you're not really
quite comparing apples with apples here.
Um, we also work very closely with the kindergarten,
the main kindergarten association.
So, um, so I'm not, you know, there is a,
there's, it's not just big providers
in under education and care.
There are the community. Absolutely. Yeah.
And, and the, you know, the one or two or three own centers.
So I, I'm not,
and also probably one of the biggest differences
between kindergarten education and care is the hours
and the hours are there
because parents
who are working full-time need longer hours than
what kindergartens are generally offering though
kindergartens are moving
to longer hours. Thank you. Mm-Hmm.
Alright. Look, I thank you, um, for good submissions
and um, yes, we lucky some of us have already had our kids.
Yeah. Just, just one more, um, small thing,
for every dollar that's invested into ECE at,
there's a $9 benefit through money
that is saved in, right?
Yeah. That, that should be taken into account as well.
So though, uh, you know, you might be thinking, gosh,
this is too much money, we just can't even look at it.
Actually with a funding model review coming up now is
exactly the right time to be moving these ratios down
and so that they are getting, could be implemented in line
and allowed for with line with the funding model review.
Kira, thank you so very much for your time.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
And uh, we'll invite the ministry.
I didn't know You, you were able
to stay if you like for the
Half of us left, clearly everybody.
Alright, welcome. Um, John.
Yeah, so I'll be a mixture of taking my glasses on
and off so I can see you and, and see my notes.
Um, so again, I'll just quickly introduce my team.
Kel, I'm John Brooker, I'm the group manager
for ECE policy at the Ministry of Education.
With me I have Graham Bustle who's the senior manager
of the funding team and Paul Scholarly iss the senior
manager of the regulatory team.
'cause this, as she obviously sits across both.
I've got Chris Jameson, who's from one
of our operational teams
and Isabelle, who wrote the response for you.
Who's one of the, one of the staff in my team.
Alright, welcome. So you've seen our petition,
so I wonder whether given the time,
but we pretty much just jumped straight into questions,
is probably the, the best way forward and a few reflections.
I guess I'm what we've, just
before, um, first time at this committee,
the last committee chair might, might tell you,
I think James was there, but maybe I talked a little long in
my initial, um, submissions.
So I'm bit conscious.
Well, do you wanna start with a
broad statement or just broad?
Yeah, broad. A broad statement about you've heard
it give, give us
We, we acknowledge that research has shown the lower
ratios can support, be supportive
of better child staff relationships
and you know, we support services
that choose under the current funding model to operate at,
at, at better than the minimum required ratios.
However, given the constrained fiscal environment we are in,
I just really wanna make it clear,
it's kind of total cost that matters.
It's not just the return on a particular investment when,
when government's making budget decisions,
it's unlikely the government can provide funding
to change minimum ratio requirements.
You heard a bit about cost
before it runs into the hundreds of millions of dollars, um,
to shift ratios even a small amount.
So it is, it is a expensive thing.
The number of teachers per child is the single biggest
driver of cost in our,
So can I ask a question on the cost?
My understanding is we did some work in an opposition a few
years ago, even to go from something like one to 10 to one
to nine and a half
or one to nine is in the magnitude
of hundreds of millions of dollars.
Yeah. So is there a trade off, a balancing point about what,
what benefits do you get out of the ratios
to make a significant difference in the classroom?
You would think from the examples given by the submitters,
you're looking at going down from one 10 to one
to five, really those kind of
Significant changes. So I'd say
there's probably two things to keep in mind.
Our numbers probably don't show it be that much.
When we costed the previous government's proposals
for a shift down to, to one to five
or one to four, I think, um, ratios
for these groups it was several hundred
million dollars over four years.
But obviously with pay parity
and with just general changes to minimum wage
and living wage since then,
that cost will have gone up a lot
and these things multiply together.
Mm. And you'll see from the submitters overall petition
to yourselves that the, um, they're saying we need
to fund this property along
with fund pay parity along with fund everything else.
And that's where the cost of the government
gets really high very quickly.
And it's really hard in a system
that's just a part funded system.
So government puts in money,
but also parent fees, a significant part of the revenue.
Um, it's really hard for the government ever
to insulate parents from an increasing cost.
Could I ask you just a question on the,
the kindergarten's point that was raised
before, they mentioned
that kindergarten's wage is, are paid by the ministry?
Is that I'm not entirely,
That's entirely incorrect.
So we've bulk fund kindergartens.
We don't payroll kindergarten teachers,
but their funding rates have historically over time they've
been closer together and wider apart,
but closer together now than they used to be,
but historically have been higher.
Okay. That's, but kindergarten associations themselves
are responsible for payroll.
Right. Uh, What, what are the, um, the,
um, ratios you're seeing?
So thank you very much. You wrote the report, the chat.
Thank you very much. So, because you did speak to this in,
in the report, but can you just,
we just have a little bit of a chat about that.
What the, what the ratios are people are voluntarily
able to, to get to.
So we've, in our report we talk about a thing called the
operating ratio, which is really, we do an annual census
of ECE data and, um, in June, July year
and for that period of time, we've chosen a busy part
of the day and we measure the actual number
of children versus the actual number
of staff in those funded child hours
in that period of the day.
So we don't sort of, if you took the whole day, you tend
to overstate and make the ratios look better.
'cause there'll be times in the morning when there's say
fewer kids and times in the afternoon there's a few fewer
kids, yet the staff are still there.
So to kind of, I guess give a fair,
accurate representation, we've done that.
And there's one to 4.05, um, for, for under twos. Yep.
And one to five point, I think 5.228 for two year olds.
So pretty close to what the ERs are suggesting.
Does that take into account active teaching staff
or is it, does the center manager count for it?
Center manager. It's
People in con it's people in contact.
So the center manager at times will be, can be in contact.
Yeah. They're a qualified staff member.
They'll be in contact, but they'd
Have to be in a position to be
Actively involved in. Yep. They can't
be sitting out the back
room, the kitchen doing their admin. Um, Francisco,
Uh, thank you chair.
You mentioned in your, um, submission page two point,
um, knowing how regulated minimum
ratios in OECD countries range from, you know, one
to three to one to 14.
And then you also talk about the, you know, the, the benefit
that younger children get from, uh, these low ratios.
So in these countries where there's uh, lower
ratios, are these the countries that see the benefits?
Um, I can't speak on those, you know,
for those jurisdictions having gone
and asked them why they have lower ratios,
but presumably they've made an active decision to do that.
What we need to be cognizant
of is the other policy settings in those countries.
And so things like how many qualified staff
are they required to have?
The real big thing is actually how many hours a day?
Often, often we comparing a, an education
and care offer, which is relatively unique in New Zealand,
we have education and care bundled together
and not separated out legally or from a funding purpose.
Many other jurisdictions just have
education, just have care.
Um, and so gotta be careful about comparing
across those boundaries.
I guess about what other settings,
'cause again, how many qualified staff?
We require 50% of employed staff to be qualified.
That's gotta be thought about when you're shifting ratios.
'cause every second person you employ has
to be qualified and it drives up cost.
And um, what's the compliance like for the existing rules
and who polices it?
So we police that. Um,
Uh, yeah, we, we do, um, it's normally from complaints
that we receive, but we know
that ratios aren't then complied with.
But um, yeah, generally speaking, the ratios only,
I think from the past five years there have been 20
complaints and I think two
of those complaints resulted in the license amendment.
So yeah, we don't give any complaints about, I guess
the ratio not being met on their own. Yeah.
And often when we investigate, we find out it's kind of a,
I guess a difference of understanding of how the rules work.
So most commonly you find there's not actually a problem
when we go and investigate that.
Well, I would imagine with sort of covid
and various other things
and illnesses, that would be the temptation to, um, yeah,
I, so, so there's not a major
non-compliance, it's not a major issue.
And the complaints you get would be from parents
or from, from other, from other childcare.
It can come from, yeah, it can be from teachers as well.
Yeah. Can from, yeah. Yeah.
Um, there's a range of different stakeholders I guess
who actually make the complaints,
but yeah, generally parents or teachers, I imagine. Yeah,
It, you'd probably have to think that the higher
mandated ratio that would probably increase.
Would it? You don't know. We don't know. We don't know.
But it's would be a temptation. Well,
It'll make it the high end mandate, the ratio, the,
the harder it'll be for people generally to meet that ratio.
But what we see, I think we can clearly see from the data is
that you set a minimum ratio at a point
and the actual one you get is somewhat lower than that.
'cause providers build and flexibility and
therefore there are other operational reasons, the welfare
of their staff and other things will operate below that.
But I guess the other complicating factor in this is
government is a path under early childhood education.
So that's quite a different, um, setting, I guess in schools
where, I know in schools we don't
have minimum rushes at all.
I, I guess, um, you probably don't,
but do you have information around sort of the, the, the
ratios compared to socioeconomic status of the areas
or where the childcare centers are?
We, I don't have that on Me today. You did?
Would you have that? Did you get that sort of information?
We sort of correlation into it. We've,
We, we can come back to that. We've got, uh,
So that ex explanation would
exist. So you would, you would,
We'd have to go and get someone to run the code, but it's
Possible. So you do
know. So like if the,
the the local childcare center in Hill Street here,
you would know what their ratio is
At that point in time from that census measurement.
And 'cause each center's got a unique number
and each center also has an equity index rating.
We'd have to use our new equity index we've been developing.
Yeah. Which has yet to be, um, publicly released.
Um, because the old equity index doesn't go
out to every single service.
We just look out to the first five deciles.
It's slightly difficult too, because the, the
generally the, the ECE will draw from the area
where people live, but not because,
but there, there, you know, c plan boy out in, um,
in South Canterbury will draw from the people
who work out at the dairy factory. But,
But, but both versions of the equity index,
even the very elderly one, um, are mapped,
that one's mapped against where the children live, not
where the center's located for that very reason.
Yeah. Right. And,
and the new equity index is based, comes out
of the integrated data infrastructure.
So it's based on the actual children
who, who attend the service.
So Right. Basically about the
characteristics of those families.
So it does adjust for that, where a center is. Okay.
So that's, once you've brought that up
and running, it's gonna be relatively easy to
Discover. Yeah, I'll just have to do
a little double check in about
how, whether I, which version of it I'll be able to
Use. Alright, well actually
that'll be
useful information for the committee.
Thank you. Agree? Yes. Just a very question, final question.
Yeah, sorry. Um, Isabel, just in your report, uh,
0.8 you said operating ratios differ across
population groups, service sites and region.
For example, the average operating ratio
for two years in Northland you've got is one is one to five
and then you've got a a dot, and then you've got 14 mm-Hmm.
Oh, it's um, 'cause it's an
average, it's not a whole number.
That's
Oh one to 5.14.
Yeah. Oh, okay. Well,
the average operating rate shift two is Mornington is one
to 4.77.
But just to clarify, that's the number of adults
in the center, not the number of
Child here. That's,
so the, the one, one adult to 5.19 or children. Yep.
Yep. Yeah. But when you say one,
one adult isn't when we're distinguishing between
the actual, uh, hands-on people as as opposed
to including everyone that was
on, or the adults that are in,
Those are the adults that are in ratio.
So they're actively making up part of the ratio.
Oh, this is just them. This doesn't include adults. Well
Over one hour.
One hour. So we choose the busiest hour of the day.
Wow. So it's, we're very close, aren't we?
Yeah. Alright,
jam, thank you very much.
No, that was, uh, that was very good actually.
I think we, if we can get that information.
I, we'll now go to our report. The only Yeah.
And we'll, so we'll go to report
and, uh, to report back parliament on this,
so you may interested in reading it. Thank
You. And, and any other
further questions, just work
through the clerk and get them back to us.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Well, I mean of course if you have,
if we fully funded them Yes.
Because that's not funded.